docs/help-center/first-steps/installation.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Installation of apps
title: Installation of apps
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: helpcenterSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<div class="hero hero--primary">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="hero__title">Installation of Famedly Apps</h2>
    <p class="hero__subtitle">There are 3 possible ways to use Famedly.</p>
    <p>Famedly is available as a web app to use in your browser, a desktop application and of course as an app for your mobile devices, since this is the main usage of a messenger.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<br></br>

:::info

Your organization needs to be registered, otherwise it is not possible to login.

:::

## Famedly for mobile

You can download Famedly on your iOS or Android device for best messaging experience.

### Download Famedly

To download the app, please go to the App Store / Play Store and search for Famedly or just scan the QR-Code.

<img alt="Passphrase" src={useBaseUrl('/img/qr-code.png')} width="20%"/>

1. Enter your organization URL or scan the QR-Code.
2. Sign in with your username & password.

## Famedly for web

Famedly is a cloud-based app, and you can access it from multiple web browsers - Chrome, Firefox, Safari. As long as you're connected to the web, all of your messages sync automatically.

### Accessing the web app

To use Famedly in your browser, enter the organization URL, provided by your organization and enter username and password. 

### Supported browsers

- We fully support Famedly on Safari, Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge.
- For Firefox users, we recommend using the standard edition of Firefox for the best experience — Developer Edition and Nightly are not fully supported. 
- Unfortunately, Internet Explorer is not supported at this time.

## Update the app

Famedly updates automatically! We push updates on a regular basis with bug fixes and performance improvements.
- Very rarely, you may need to re-install Famedly to install an update. We'll let you know when that's the case and tell you exactly what to do.

Commit message:

docs: Add instructions for desktop installation of web app

docs/help-center/first-steps/installation.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Installation of apps
title: Installation of apps
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: helpcenterSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<div class="hero hero--primary">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="hero__title">Installation of Famedly Apps</h2>
    <p class="hero__subtitle">There are 3 possible ways to use Famedly.</p>
    <p>Famedly is available as a web app to use in your browser, a desktop application and of course as an app for your mobile devices, since this is the main usage of a messenger.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<br></br>

:::info

Your organization needs to be registered, otherwise it is not possible to login.

:::

## Famedly for mobile

You can download Famedly on your iOS or Android device for best messaging experience.

### Download Famedly

To download the app, please go to the App Store / Play Store and search for Famedly or just scan the QR-Code.

<img alt="Passphrase" src={useBaseUrl('/img/qr-code.png')} width="20%"/>

1. Enter your organization URL or scan the QR-Code.
2. Sign in with your username & password.

## Famedly for web

Famedly is a cloud-based app, and you can access it from multiple web browsers - Chrome, Firefox, Safari. As long as you're connected to the web, all of your messages sync automatically.

### Accessing the web app

To use Famedly in your browser, enter the organization URL, provided by your organization and enter username and password. 

### Supported browsers

- We fully support Famedly on Safari, Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge.
- For Firefox users, we recommend using the standard edition of Firefox for the best experience — Developer Edition and Nightly are not fully supported. 
- Unfortunately, Internet Explorer is not supported at this time.

### Install desktop app from Famedly web app

Most browsers support installing the Famedly web app on your desktop. 
That means you can find the app by searching for installed apps and depending on your operating system, it might be added to your desktop or dock. 
To install the web app on your Desktop, follow the following steps: 

1. Open Famedly web app in your browser. (preferably Chrome, Firefox doesn't have this option)
2. Go to your browsers settings menu (usually accessible through &nbsp;**⁝**&nbsp; or &nbsp;**☰**&nbsp; icon)
3. Click on **Install Famedly...** (in Chrome, might be different on other browsers)
(In Chrome and some other Chrome based browsers, you can click on the **desktop icon with the arrow down** in the address bar instead of doing steps 2 and 3)
4. Click on **Install**
5. A window with the Famedly app will open

If you have problems with these instructions because you use a different browser than Chrome, you can also google “install web app” with the name of your browser added to the end of the search term to get instructions for your specific browser. Preferably use instructions that are posted directly by the supplier of your browser to get the most recent instructions. 

Please keep in mind that the installed web app is still a window of the browser you installed it with, so you can refresh the app by pressing **F5** key or with a right click on the title bar of the window and then clicking on **refresh**.  

### Uninstall the desktop app

1. Open the desktop app
2. Open the settings menu by clicking on the &nbsp;**⁝**&nbsp; or &nbsp;**☰**&nbsp; icon
3. Click on **Uninstall Famedly...**

## Update the app

Famedly updates automatically! We push updates on a regular basis with bug fixes and performance improvements.
- Very rarely, you may need to re-install Famedly to install an update. We'll let you know when that's the case and tell you exactly what to do.
