docs/help-center/your-account/account-settings.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Settings
title: Account settings
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: helpcenterSidebar
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<div class="hero hero--primary">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="hero__title">Account settings</h2>
    <p>In this section we want to help you to manage your account.</p>
  </div>
</div>


## Upload or edit a profile picture

Having a profile picture is useful as it allows other users to easily identify you and verify that they are communicating with the correct person. It also adds a personal touch to the conversation and makes it more engaging.

### Add/Change profile picture

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on "Open gallery".</li>
    <li>Choose a photo from your files.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on "Open gallery" or "Open camera".</li>
    <li>Choose a photo from your gallery.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Remove profile picture

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on "Open gallery".</li>
    <li>Tap on "Remove profile picture".</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on "Remove profile picture".</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Notifications

We rely on timely communication between our users, and notifications ensure that you are informed of new messages or updates in real-time. Without notifications, you may miss important messages and experience delays in your communication.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>Click on your <b>profile picture or name initials</b> to get to the settings.</li>
    <li>Click on the <b>Notifications</b> field.</li>
    <li>Click on the switch to enable or disable the notifications.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Click on your <b>profile picture or name initials</b> to get to the settings.</li>
    <li>Click on the <b>Notifications</b> field.</li>
    <li>Click on the switch to enable or disable the notifications.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Style

Enabling dark mode in Famedly can reduce eye strain and make it easier to work for longer periods. You can also set the style to "System theme" to switch the theme based on the system settings.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Style</b>.</li>
    <li>Choose under <b>Theme</b> the style you prefer.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on <b>Style</b>.</li>
    <li>Choose under <b>Theme</b> the style you prefer.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Directory

You can allow people from other organizations to find your account, which is useful if you want to communicate with individuals outside of your own organization.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Directory</b>.</li>
    <li>Enable or disable the option to be discovered by people outside of your organization.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap <b>Directory</b>.</li>
    <li>Enable or disable the option to be discovered by people outside of your organization.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Change password

If you can see the option to change the password in the settings you can change the password. If you do not see the option, the password is set via another system of your organization.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Change password</b>.</li>
    <li>Enter your current password</li>
    <li>Enter your new password.</li>
    <li>Confirm the password change, by clicking <b>Change password</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on <b>Change password</b>.</li>
    <li>Enter your current password</li>
    <li>Enter your new password.</li>
    <li>Confirm the password change, by tapping <b>Change password</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Screen lock

On mobile devices there is an option to lock the screen and unlock it either by entering a pin or by biometrics (e.g. fingerprint).  
A set screen lock will only apply on the device you activate it on and will disappear on logout. If you log in again, you will have to set it again but this also means that you can reset the screen lock by logging out if you forgot the pin. 
Please keep in mind that your organization might enforce the usage of screen lock. 

### Activate screen lock

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on <b>Lock screen</b> to enter screen lock settings.</li>
    <li>There tap on <b>Lock screen</b> again to activate the switch.</li>
    <li>Enter a pin code you want to use for screen lock.</li>
    <li>Confirm the pin code.</li>
    <li>You will now see further options on the <b>Lock screen</b> settings page.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Change pin code for screen lock

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on <b>Change PIN code</b>.</li>
    <li>Enter your current pin code.</li>
    <li>Now enter the new pin code.</li>
    <li>Confirm the new pin code.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use pin code for unlocking

After you closed or minimized the app you will be asked to authorize yourself with your screen lock pin when you open the app again. 
When you already activated screen lock and you open the app, you will be asked to enter your pin code. 

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on the number input field.</li>
    <li>Insert your pin code.</li>
    <li>If you forgot your pin code, please tap on the button <b>Logout</b> on the upper left corner,
 screen lock will be resetted on logout.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use biometrics for screen lock

Instead of the pin code, you can unlock your device with biometrics like face id or fingerprint. The biometrics feature will use your devices default biometrics. You can still use your pin code and if you want to deactivate screen lock, you will still have to enter your pin code. If you forget your pin code, the only way to deactivate screen lock is to log out. 

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on <b>Use biometrics</b>.</li>
    <li>Identify with the biometrics you use on your device.</li>
    <li>If you now try to unlock the app, you will get prompted to use biometrics. You can cancel the dialog to use your pin code instead.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use auto lock for screen lock

If you want to make sure noone can read your messages because you might forget to put the app in background, you can choose different time spans for automated locking. 

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on <b>Auto lock</b>.</li>
    <li>Choose the time span for locking the screen from the list.</li>
    <li>The app will now lock itself after the time span you selected elapses with any inactivity.</li>
    <li>If you don't want to use the auto lock feature anymore, tap on <b>Auto lock</b> again and select “Deactivate” from the list.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Connected devices

Here you will find all the devices connected to your account. You have the option to lock or remove devices here. Please note that by signing out of other devices, you will lose access to them. You will need to sign in again on those devices.

## Privacy

Here you have options to choose if you want to share read receipts, typing indicators or your online status with others and if you want to share crash reports with Famedly to help us enhance the app. 
To protect your privacy, all those features are opt-in, so they are turned off by default.

### What are read receipts?

When the switch for sending read receipts is turned on, other user can see if you read a message. 
At the bottom right corner of every chat room just above the message input field you can see the avatars of the users who read the last message. If more than four users read the last message, only four avatars will be displayed there and the number of other users who read the message will be shown left to the avatars like e.g. <b>+3</b> if seven users read the last message. 
You can also enter the <b>Read by</b> page on the message settings to see who read a message. 
If you turn off the switch for sending read receipts, others will not see your avatar at the bottom of the chat or in the <b>Read by</b> list. 

### What are typing indicators?

When the switch for sending typing indicators is turned on, this means that whenever you are typing and another person has the same chat room opened, the other person gets a notification above the message input field on the bottom left corner with your avatar or initials saying <b>User is typing...</b> where “User” stands for your own username. 
If you turn off sending typing indicators, this notification will not be shown for other users when you are typing. 

### What is your online status?

Currently on Famedly we do not show the online status of users but that might change in the future. 
Since matrix accounts can be used with other messengers, it is possible that a user you have a chat room with uses another client which does show the online status like e.g. Element. 
When the switch for sending online status is turned on, those users might see a green dot on your Avatar or other indicators for the online status when you have the app on foreground or a yellow dot for inactivity when you minimize the app. 
With the switch turned off, you will be shown as offline to any matrix messenger that can indicate the online status. 

### How to enable/disable chat features

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Privacy</b>.</li>
    <li>You can activate all chat features by clicking on <b>Enable all chat features</b>, this would mean sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports.</li>
    <li>You can also deactivate all chat features by clicking on <b>Enable all chat features</b> when all switches are already turned on, this would mean <b>not</b> sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports anymore.</li>
    <li>To turn on/off the other chat features, just click on the single switches.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Privacy</b>.</li>
    <li>You can activate all chat features by tapping on <b>Enable all chat features</b>, this would mean sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports.</li>
    <li>You can also deactivate all chat features by tapping on <b>Enable all chat features</b> when all switches are already turned on, this would mean <b>not</b> sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports anymore.</li>
    <li>To turn on/off the other chat features, just tap on the single switches.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Archive

In the archive, you will find all the chats you have left. Loading may take some time. Here you have the option to read old messages and clear the archive.

- To read old chats, click on the respective chat room.
- To clear the archive, please click on the menu in the upper right corner to open the menu.

## Chat-Backup

Depending on the state of the chat backup, you have two options:

- You can enable the chat backup.
- You can reset the passphrase for the chat backup.

In both cases, make sure to store the generated passphrase in a secure place.

## About

At this section, you will find some additional useful information.

## Sign out

You are able to sign out of Famedly, if you want to sign in with a different account.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your <b>profile picture</b>.</li>
    <li>Click on the logout icon above your <b>profile picture</b>.</li>
    <li>Confirm the sign out by clicking <b>Sign out</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your <b>profile picture or your name</b> in the header of the screen.</li>
    <li>Tap <b>Sign out</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

feat: Applock is now required on mobile devices without os lock

docs/help-center/your-account/account-settings.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Settings
title: Account settings
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: helpcenterSidebar
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<div class="hero hero--primary">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="hero__title">Account settings</h2>
    <p>In this section we want to help you to manage your account.</p>
  </div>
</div>


## Upload or edit a profile picture

Having a profile picture is useful as it allows other users to easily identify you and verify that they are communicating with the correct person. It also adds a personal touch to the conversation and makes it more engaging.

### Add/Change profile picture

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on "Open gallery".</li>
    <li>Choose a photo from your files.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on "Open gallery" or "Open camera".</li>
    <li>Choose a photo from your gallery.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Remove profile picture

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on "Open gallery".</li>
    <li>Tap on "Remove profile picture".</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on the profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on "Remove profile picture".</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Notifications

We rely on timely communication between our users, and notifications ensure that you are informed of new messages or updates in real-time. Without notifications, you may miss important messages and experience delays in your communication.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>Click on your <b>profile picture or name initials</b> to get to the settings.</li>
    <li>Click on the <b>Notifications</b> field.</li>
    <li>Click on the switch to enable or disable the notifications.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Click on your <b>profile picture or name initials</b> to get to the settings.</li>
    <li>Click on the <b>Notifications</b> field.</li>
    <li>Click on the switch to enable or disable the notifications.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Style

Enabling dark mode in Famedly can reduce eye strain and make it easier to work for longer periods. You can also set the style to "System theme" to switch the theme based on the system settings.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Style</b>.</li>
    <li>Choose under <b>Theme</b> the style you prefer.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on <b>Style</b>.</li>
    <li>Choose under <b>Theme</b> the style you prefer.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Directory

You can allow people from other organizations to find your account, which is useful if you want to communicate with individuals outside of your own organization.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Directory</b>.</li>
    <li>Enable or disable the option to be discovered by people outside of your organization.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap <b>Directory</b>.</li>
    <li>Enable or disable the option to be discovered by people outside of your organization.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Change password

If you can see the option to change the password in the settings you can change the password. If you do not see the option, the password is set via another system of your organization.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Change password</b>.</li>
    <li>Enter your current password</li>
    <li>Enter your new password.</li>
    <li>Confirm the password change, by clicking <b>Change password</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on <b>Change password</b>.</li>
    <li>Enter your current password</li>
    <li>Enter your new password.</li>
    <li>Confirm the password change, by tapping <b>Change password</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Screen lock

On mobile devices there is an option to lock the screen and unlock it either by entering a pin or by biometrics (e.g. fingerprint).  
A set screen lock will only apply on the device you activate it on and will disappear on logout. If you log in again, you will have to set it again but this also means that you can reset the screen lock by logging out if you forgot the pin. 

:::info

You might be required to set up a screen lock on mobile devices if your device doesn't have a system wide screen lock enabled or if your organization requires the usage of screen lock and will be prompted for that during the setup process.

:::

### Activate screen lock

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Tap on <b>Lock screen</b> to enter screen lock settings.</li>
    <li>There tap on <b>Lock screen</b> again to activate the switch.</li>
    <li>Enter a pin code you want to use for screen lock.</li>
    <li>Confirm the pin code.</li>
    <li>You will now see further options on the <b>Lock screen</b> settings page.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Change pin code for screen lock

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on <b>Change PIN code</b>.</li>
    <li>Enter your current pin code.</li>
    <li>Now enter the new pin code.</li>
    <li>Confirm the new pin code.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use pin code for unlocking

After you closed or minimized the app you will be asked to authorize yourself with your screen lock pin when you open the app again. 
When you already activated screen lock and you open the app, you will be asked to enter your pin code. 

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on the number input field.</li>
    <li>Insert your pin code.</li>
    <li>If you forgot your pin code, please tap on the button <b>Logout</b> on the upper left corner,
 screen lock will be resetted on logout.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use biometrics for screen lock

Instead of the pin code, you can unlock your device with biometrics like face id or fingerprint. The biometrics feature will use your devices default biometrics. You can still use your pin code and if you want to deactivate screen lock, you will still have to enter your pin code. If you forget your pin code, the only way to deactivate screen lock is to log out. 

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on <b>Use biometrics</b>.</li>
    <li>Identify with the biometrics you use on your device.</li>
    <li>If you now try to unlock the app, you will get prompted to use biometrics. You can cancel the dialog to use your pin code instead.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use auto lock for screen lock

If you want to make sure noone can read your messages because you might forget to put the app in background, you can choose different time spans for automated locking. 

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>Tap on <b>Auto lock</b>.</li>
    <li>Choose the time span for locking the screen from the list.</li>
    <li>The app will now lock itself after the time span you selected elapses with any inactivity.</li>
    <li>If you don't want to use the auto lock feature anymore, tap on <b>Auto lock</b> again and select “Deactivate” from the list.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Connected devices

Here you will find all the devices connected to your account. You have the option to lock or remove devices here. Please note that by signing out of other devices, you will lose access to them. You will need to sign in again on those devices.

## Privacy

Here you have options to choose if you want to share read receipts, typing indicators or your online status with others and if you want to share crash reports with Famedly to help us enhance the app. 
To protect your privacy, all those features are opt-in, so they are turned off by default.

### What are read receipts?

When the switch for sending read receipts is turned on, other user can see if you read a message. 
At the bottom right corner of every chat room just above the message input field you can see the avatars of the users who read the last message. If more than four users read the last message, only four avatars will be displayed there and the number of other users who read the message will be shown left to the avatars like e.g. <b>+3</b> if seven users read the last message. 
You can also enter the <b>Read by</b> page on the message settings to see who read a message. 
If you turn off the switch for sending read receipts, others will not see your avatar at the bottom of the chat or in the <b>Read by</b> list. 

### What are typing indicators?

When the switch for sending typing indicators is turned on, this means that whenever you are typing and another person has the same chat room opened, the other person gets a notification above the message input field on the bottom left corner with your avatar or initials saying <b>User is typing...</b> where “User” stands for your own username. 
If you turn off sending typing indicators, this notification will not be shown for other users when you are typing. 

### What is your online status?

Currently on Famedly we do not show the online status of users but that might change in the future. 
Since matrix accounts can be used with other messengers, it is possible that a user you have a chat room with uses another client which does show the online status like e.g. Element. 
When the switch for sending online status is turned on, those users might see a green dot on your Avatar or other indicators for the online status when you have the app on foreground or a yellow dot for inactivity when you minimize the app. 
With the switch turned off, you will be shown as offline to any matrix messenger that can indicate the online status. 

### How to enable/disable chat features

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Privacy</b>.</li>
    <li>You can activate all chat features by clicking on <b>Enable all chat features</b>, this would mean sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports.</li>
    <li>You can also deactivate all chat features by clicking on <b>Enable all chat features</b> when all switches are already turned on, this would mean <b>not</b> sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports anymore.</li>
    <li>To turn on/off the other chat features, just click on the single switches.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your profile picture or name initials.</li>
    <li>Click on <b>Privacy</b>.</li>
    <li>You can activate all chat features by tapping on <b>Enable all chat features</b>, this would mean sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports.</li>
    <li>You can also deactivate all chat features by tapping on <b>Enable all chat features</b> when all switches are already turned on, this would mean <b>not</b> sending read receipts, typing indicators, online status and crash reports anymore.</li>
    <li>To turn on/off the other chat features, just tap on the single switches.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Archive

In the archive, you will find all the chats you have left. Loading may take some time. Here you have the option to read old messages and clear the archive.

- To read old chats, click on the respective chat room.
- To clear the archive, please click on the menu in the upper right corner to open the menu.

## Chat-Backup

Depending on the state of the chat backup, you have two options:

- You can enable the chat backup.
- You can reset the passphrase for the chat backup.

In both cases, make sure to store the generated passphrase in a secure place.

## About

At this section, you will find some additional useful information.

## Sign out

You are able to sign out of Famedly, if you want to sign in with a different account.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Desktop" default>
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, click on your <b>profile picture</b>.</li>
    <li>Click on the logout icon above your <b>profile picture</b>.</li>
    <li>Confirm the sign out by clicking <b>Sign out</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile">
  <ol>
    <li>To access the settings, tap on your <b>profile picture or your name</b> in the header of the screen.</li>
    <li>Tap <b>Sign out</b>.</li>
  </ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
